pq blog post (#5)
openmls/blog: content/2024-04-11-pq-openmls.md

The implementation uses Cryspen’s [formally verified ML-KEM](https://cryspen.com/post/ml-kem-verification/) and x25519 implementations from [libcrux](https://github.com/cryspen/libcrux/). The implementations are not only formally verified for correctness, secret independence, and memory safety, but also amongst the fastest implementations. Users should not notice any significant performance differences when using this new ciphersuite.
The threat of HNDL attackers requires applications to switch to post-quantum secure mechanisms now, just like [Signal](https://signal.org/blog/pqxdh/) and [iMessage](https://security.apple.com/blog/imessage-pq3/) did already. OpenMLS offers a simple way to achieve security against HNDL attackers and is ready to use.

## Performance

> While the new ML-KEM mechanism is very efficient, it requires larger messages and because the ciphersuite used is hybrid, the workload increases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the new ML-KEM mechanism is very efficient, it requires larger messages and because the ciphersuite used is hybrid (i.e. a combination of ML-KEM the classical x25519 KEM), the workload increases.
```

One can clearly see an overhead from the post-quantum scheme.
While the computation complexity is not too high, and more efficient implementations of ML-KEM may be used, the communication complexity increases significantly due to the larger key and message sizes in ML-KEM.

##### Computation

|                    | X-Wing + x25519 | x25519    |
| ------------------ | --------------- | --------- |
| Create Key Package | 273.39 µs       | 138.24 µs |
| Create Welcome     | 665.77 µs       | 366.23 µs |
| Join a group       | 733.22 µs       | 313.37 µs |
| Self update        | 650.77 µs       | 294.49 µs |

##### Communication

|                   | X-Wing + x25519 | x25519    |
| ----------------- | --------------- | --------- |
| Key package size  | 2669 Bytes      | 299 Bytes |
| Welcome size      | 5457 Bytes      | 716 Bytes |
| Ratchet tree size | 4007 Bytes      | 408 Bytes |
| Self update size  | 3954 Bytes      | 495 Bytes |

## Next Steps

Using X-Wing as KEM in MLS is the easiest solution to achieve HNDL security for secure group messaging, or any use case that uses the state synchronization protocols specified in MLS.

> However, there may be more efficient ways to integrate HNDL protection into MLS by making use of more lightweight KEM combiners because of the way MLS works.
> X-Wing is designed as a drop-in KEM scheme with very conservative security guarantees. In the case of MLS a custom KEM scheme may be more efficient.

Reviewer: Maybe provide more details along the lines of the following:
```suggestion
However, X-Wing is designed as a drop-in KEM scheme with very conservative security guarantees. In the context of MLS, there may be more efficient ways to integrate HNDL protection, for example, by making use of more lightweight KEM combiners, or by other means specific to MLS. In the context of the MLS working group, we are actively discussing multiple proposals for improved HNDL protection. Once more promising candidates are available, we will publish a follow-up of this post. 
```
